WHY IS WINTER SO COLD?
Brrr.
It is so cold.
I am freezing.
Look!
It has started snowing.
Oh no.
Now we won’t be able to go out.
I don’t like winters.
I love summers as it is nice and warm.
I don’t know why winters have to be so cold.
That’s because
the Earth is tilted away from the sun.
Earth is tilted?
I don’t understand.
Tiger,
Get me the globe from the classroom here.
Can you see how this globe is tilted?
Well,
during summer the northern part of the earth
faces the sun
so we get sunlight and it is warm.
As the earth rotates round the sun,
the northern part tilts away from the sun.
During winter,
this part does not face the sun directly
and it is harder for the rays of the sun
to reach us.
That is why it is chilly during winter.
Brrrr.
No wonder we haven’t seen sunlight
for so many days.
Wish I could fix the earth in one place.
But you know,
the thought of sunny days
manages to keep me warm.